Designing an API is pretty
much an art form in itself.
There's a lot of craft
and thoughtfulness in
how we design things that
we present to an end-user.
I'm Celina, a software
engineer at Meta,
working on Instagram reels.
I first got into
software engineering,
I think around the time when
I was in middle school.
I really fell in love
with the process
of web development
and web design,
which I actually learned just
by myself out of curiosity.
I would dissect websites and see
how they were functioning
under the hood.
I would follow
tutorials by myself.
I really fell in love with
this process of
creating something
tangible out of something
seemingly abstract,
like an idea or like
blobs and lines of
code in this case.
APIs are essentially
the bread and butter of
end-to-end full-stack
developments.
I say bread and butter just
because they're so
crucial in terms
of describing how
software components
interact with each other.
Whenever you pull up
your Instagram app,
you are interacting with
APIs all over the place.
There's a specific set of
APIs that renders things like
stories and photos and
videos in your home feed.
There's another API that
does the same thing,
but on your explore page.
There's another
API that registers
things like
double-taps on a post,
as likes on the back end,
and that tells your
device to render
that little heart icon
in the red color.
You can think of APIs as
essentially an
intermediary between
an end-user and a
back-end service.
Say you can describe an
API as a bank teller,
and the data the
back-end services
host as the money in the bank.
When you are a
customer wanting to
withdraw or deposit
money from the bank,
you're not necessarily
interacting
with the money directly.
Instead, you go
to a bank teller,
in this case, an API,
which handles things
like communications
between the end user and
the back-end services,
and also tells you
how much money
or data you're able to access.
APIs at Meta are designed with
specific purpose in mind.
Say the goal is to design API
for a user-facing
product or feature.
Typically, we have a designer
that creates the mocks,
and we work with
a product designer that
essentially provides
information on,
here are the high level
objectives of what
this end product or
service could look like.
Then typically, the
actual API design
is a handshake agreement
between several engineers.
Typically, back-end and
front end engineers
agree on the API structure.
They also agree on things
like what the request
structure could
look like and what the response
could look like as well.
In thinking about
designing an API,
I think it's really important
to consider who
your end user is.
Another thing to
consider is also
who are the people
who are going to
be accessing the data,
and also your API and services.
You want to make sure
that you add a layer
of security in the form of
credentials to your request
in order to preserve
that integrity as well.
My advice for aspiring
developers is,
come at API design
with an open mind.
Remember that it's going be
a collaborative process between
several engineers and
potentially also product
managers and designers,
folks who are going to
be really invested in
the outcome of the API in
the form of a product,
or an app, or a service even.
When you're building an API,
you really have to think about
components as part
of a larger piece.
There is beauty in
having an output that
is reflective of things
that you see in application
in the real world.
Have fun with it,
brainstorm with engineers,
and get a sense of
what the target architecture
for an API could be.
I hope that you have a better
sense of what APIs are,
and how they fit in the software
development life cycle.
I know that you have a
lot of work ahead of you,
but keep checking at it just
because it's so worth it to
know how all these
different components
interact with each other.